# sqlalchemy-challenge

To analyze the Hawaiian weather, SQLAlchemy was used to connect to the SQLite database and retrieve the measurement and station tables. Python was linked to the database in order to query the data. First the most recent date in the data set was queried using the order by function on the date column in the Measurement table. One year prior to the most recent date was calculated, and that was used to query the precipitation data for the last year. That data was placed into a pandas dataframe. The dates were sorted within the dataframe and set to be the index, and that dataframe was plotted into a bar chart. A summary statistics was also ran on the data. 

The count of the stations were then queried using the count function. Then a query was used to find the count of each station using a group by, and sorted in descending order. The min, max, and average temperature of the station id that was at the top of the previous query, which was the most active station, was calculated. Then that station id was used as a filter to find the last 12 months of temperature data for that particular station. That data was put into a dataframe and placed into a histogram plot. 

A Flask API was created using the previous queries with the homepage listing all the routes. There is a page that shows the results of the precipitation data for the last year using the query that retrieved the data and precipitation scores. A stations page contains the list of all the stations. The tobs page has the dates and temperatures of the most active station for the last year of collected data. The last two pages are dynamic and the shows the max, min, and average temperature with one page being able to enter a custom start date in the route, and the other page being able to enter a custom start and end date. 
